./" Manpage for your script
.TH man 1 "09 November 2023" "1.1" "backup.sh man page"
.SH NAME
.B backup.sh 
\- a script facilitating the backup creation process. It includes mechanisms for periodic backups and settings storage.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B backup.sh
.P
.B backup.sh \fR[\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-h\fR]
.P
.B backup.sh \fR[\fB\-f \fIFILE_NAME\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B backup.sh 
is a script that allows for easy backup creation. It allows entering directories in various ways: selecting a directory from a list, 
entering a path, or using a graphical file selection dialog. It features options for periodic backups and settings storage.
.P
Upon running the script, the main menu is displayed, where the user can choose one of the five options. 
These include different methods of entering paths, as well as an option to display the currently selected directories and proceed to create a backup. 
After confirming the settings, the user chooses whether the backup should be saved as a directory or a .tar.gz archive.
.P
After saving, the user has the option to enable periodic backups for the just-created backup. 
This option is an entry in the crontab file that calls an additional script 
.B backup_cron.sh
with the 
.B -f
option, providing the configuration file for the newly created backup.
.P
Upon execution, the user can load options from a file. In this case, the added directories are visible along with the other selected directories. Saving settings is possible after creating a backup.
.P
Backups have names following the format: 
.I backup-YYYY-MM-DD-HH:MM:SS
\-
.I YYYY 
is the year,
.I MM
is the month,
.I DD
is the day,
.I HH
is the hour,
.I MM
is the minute, and
.I SS
is the second at the time of backup creation. The backup maintains the internal structure of the selected directories.
.SH OPTIONS
.B \-v
.IP
This option displays information about the author and script version.
.P
.B \-h
.IP
This option displays brief information about the script, as well as available commands and their functionality.
.P
.BI \-p\  file
.IP
This option allows entering directories from a file with the specified path. 
They will be available for use in creating backups.
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
Michał Krause 188592, computer science, semester 2, group 4